The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a regulation on data protection and privacy for all individuals within the European Union and the European Economic Area. The regulation has increased the focus on privacy in companies and strengthened the data subjects influence.
Contents

    Legal text
    Guidelines
    Blogs
    Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIA)
    Tools
    Incident management
    Organisations / Projects
    Solutions providers
    Related

Legal text

    GDPR (2016/679) - Official version of GDPR.
    GDPR-info - GDPR linked to relevant articles and section in the preamble.
    GDPR-expert - Compare the Regulation, Directive and National legislation. Linked to relevant section in preamble.

Guidelines

    EDPB: Guidelines & Opinions
    ICO: Guide to GDPR
    Handbook on European data protection law - Handbook issued by EU.

Blogs

    GDPR Today - Privacy news from the Open Rights Group.
    Spread Privacy - DuckDuckGo Blog.
    Freedom To Tinker - Blog from Princeton's CITP, a research center that studies digital technologies in public life.
    pdpEcho - All about personal data protection and privacy, by Gabriela Zanfir-Fortuna.

Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIA)

    Open-source DPIA software from the French DPA
    Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (WP29)
    ISO-standard: Guidelines for privacy impact assessment
    DPIA template from ICO

Tools

    Website Evidence Collector (WEC) - EDPS Inspection Software.

Incident management

    ENISA: Recommendations for a methodology of the assessment of severity of personal data breaches
    Google, SRE: Managing Incidents
    Troy Hunt: Data breach disclosure 101
    Awesome Incident Response
    GDPR Enforcement Tracker - Overview of fines and penalties.

Data Protection Authorities

    European Data Protection Board - EDPB.
    European Data Protection Supervisor - EDPS.
    European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA) - ENISA.
    List of Data Protection Authorities

Organisations / Projects

    Electronic Frontier Foundation - Nonprofit defending digital privacy, free speech, and innovation.
    International Association of Privacy Professionals - A resource for privacy professionals.
    Privacy International - Charity that challenges the governments and companies that want to know everything about individuals, groups, and whole societies.
    NOYB - Organisation that brings important issues to the attention of DPAs, enforces the law in civil court or directly engages with companies.
    GDPR.eu - Resource for organisations and individuals researching the GDPR (Not official website).
    CyLab Usable Privacy and Security Laboratory - Research related to understand and improving the usability of privacy and security.
    EPIC - Electronic Privacy Information Center.
    Future of Privacy Forum - Catalyst for privacy leadership and scholarship, advancing principled data practices in support of emerging technologies.
    W3C Privacy Interest Group - Leading the web to its full potential.

Solutions providers

    OneTrust
    TrustArc
    Privitar
    BigID
    Wirewheel
    Collibra

Related

    Privacy Respecting
    Awesome: Security
    Awesome: Humane Tech
    Awesome: Privacy
